---
author: Daniel Mita
layout: post
title: UUID4::Tiny
subtitle: Cryptographically secure version 4 UUIDs via the Linux getrandom() system call
tags: perl uuid cryptography cpan module
---

[UUID::Tiny][uuid-tiny] is nice, but unfortunately due to its usage of
rand() the version 4 UUIDs it provides are not cryptographically
strong i.e. there exists the potential for the next value to be
predicted. We opted to create a lightweight (core modules only!)
alternative which uses a strong source of randomness.

Linux kernel v3.17 introduced the system call getrandom() which
returns a specified number of random bytes. It reads from the same
source as /dev/urandom by default without requiring the opening of
a file handle (which removes an avenue for file descriptor
exhaustion attacks).

{% highlight perl %}
use constant {
    GRND_NONBLOCK => 0x0001,
    RANDOM_BYTES  => 16,
};

my $call = syscall( 318, my $uuid = "\0" x RANDOM_BYTES,
    RANDOM_BYTES, GRND_NONBLOCK );

vec( $uuid, 13, 4 ) = 0x4; # version
vec( $uuid, 35, 2 ) = 0x2; # variant
{% endhighlight %}

[UUID4::Tiny][uuid4-tiny] takes 16 bytes via getrandom(), and sets
the correct version and variant for a valid version 4 UUID. Those
bytes can either be returned as-is or converted to the canonical
8-4-4-4-12 UUID string representation.

GRND_NONBLOCK is a flag which allows for the system call to return
an error instead of blocking if the entropy pool has not yet
been initialized.

Given the requirement for Linux kernel v3.17 (and 64 bit due to the
explicit system call number), if this does not suit you then fear not,
there is an alternative in [UUID::URandom][uuid-urandom], which uses
either /dev/urandom or the Windows Crypto API depending on your system.

[uuid-tiny]: https://metacpan.org/pod/UUID::Tiny
[uuid4-tiny]: https://metacpan.org/pod/UUID4::Tiny
[uuid-urandom]: https://metacpan.org/pod/UUID::URandom
